==================
Introducing Tarmac
==================

Merging branches is boring.  Really, it is.  After humans have looked over a
merge, it should really just magically be merged.  That's what Tarmac does, and
it does it well.

How it works
============

Tarmac uses Launchpad to manage merging branches.  It does this by checking
over all the branches configured to have Tarmac manage them for merge proposals
that are approved and have commit messages set.  It then merges those branches,
one by one, and automatically commits them.

What's more, Tarmac supports plugins that can prevent a branch from landing if
it doesn't meet specific requirements, or perform specific tasks after the
branch has landed.  This opens up all sorts of branch landing options that can
happen behind the scenes, while you can safely do more exciting work.


Configuration
=============

Tarmac gets it's configuration data from ``~/.config/tarmac/tarmac.conf`` --
The configuration is split up by projects.  As an example, Tarmac will
demonstrate its own config throughout this project.  To start with, the Tarmac
project should be added to the config (with the file being created if it
doesn't exist already).::

  [Tarmac]
  # Configuration for the Tarmac project

This doesn't mean much by itself.  Optionally, we can also specify where to
write the log (by default, it logs to ~/tarmac.log).  A basic log file setting
would look like this:

  [Tarmac]
  log_file = /var/log/tarmac.log

Now let's provide some branches for Tarmac to manage.  How about Tarmac's
development focus first?  Specifying this is REALLY easy.  Now my config file
will look like this:

  [Tarmac]
  log_file = /var/log/tarmac.log

  [lp:tarmac]

That's it!  I specify the branch by it's lp: name, and Tarmac knows that when
it's instructed to land branches, it should check up on lp:tarmac for approved
merge proposals.  However, this means that Tarmac has to make a new tree of
lp:tarmac every time it makes a landing run.  This is rather inefficient.  We
can actually have Tarmac cache a tree, and just update it on every run.  This
path to the cache tree can be specified by changing the config file to look
like this:

  [Tarmac]
  log_file = /var/log/tarmac.log

  [lp:tarmac]
  tree_dir = /var/cache/tarmac

If this directory or tree doesn't exist, Tarmac will go ahead and create it.
